Lisbon overview: hilltop views, riverfront walks, tiled streets, and relaxed cafe culture.
Alfama walking tour | Wander old town alleys, fado corners, miradouros | cost≈60 | morning
LX Factory evening | Food/art market by the river; cafes and design shops | cost≈40 | evening
Pastel de nata crawl | Bakery hop in Baixa/Chiado; try espresso pairings | cost≈15 | afternoon
Tram 28 ride | Classic yellow tram loop past key sights; best early to avoid crowds | cost≈25 | morning
Sintra day trip | Palaces + gardens; pair with coastal stop in Cascais | cost≈110 | full-day
Albufeira | Albufeira is a city ("cidade") and municipality ("concelho") in the district of Faro (Algarve). Albufeira is one of the most popular and internationally famous holiday destinations in the Algarve,...
Alcobaça | Alcobaça is a small city in Portugal's Oeste region. The popular bayside beach town of São Martinho do Porto is located in the municipality. Understand. Alcobaça (ahl-koo-BAH-suh, /aɫ.ku.ˈba.sɐ/),...
Almada | Almada is a city of 174,000 people (2011) on the Setúbal Peninsula in the Estremadura region on the south bank of the Tagus river, just across from Lisbon. Understand. Almada (ahl-MAH-duh, /aɫ.ˈma....
Amarante | Amarante is a beautiful city in Northern Portugal, and a popular pilgrimage destination. Amarante sits on a hill overlooking the bucolic river Tamega. In the distance stands the gorgeous mountain,...
Badajoz | Badajoz is a city in Extremadura on the western border of Spain, looking across into Portugal. Its sprawling surrounds are industrial and residential, with a population of 151,565 in 2011, but the...
Baiona | Baiona (Bayona in Castilian Spanish) is a town in Galicia on the Atlantic coast of Spain, 20 km south of Vigo. It has a small fishing fleet but is mostly a tourist resort, with a resident populatio...
Benin City | Benin City is one of the oldest cities in Nigeria, dating back to pre-colonial times. It was the capital of one of the most advanced and organised kingdoms in Africa before the arrival of the Briti...
Braga | Braga is one of the five largest cities of Portugal, situated in the Minho region in the North of the country. It is known for its abundance of churches and thus called the "city of archbishops". A...
Caceres | Cáceres is a beautiful small city of 96,000 people (2018) in the Extremadura region of Spain that is worth spending several days visiting. The Old Town is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Get in. By p...
Caldas da Rainha | Caldas da Rainha is a city in Portugal's Oeste region, about from the Atlantic Ocean and north of Lisbon. Absent from most travellers' itineraries, this charming city is a great place to experience...
Cascais | Cascais is a beach town in Greater Lisbon, Estremadura, Portugal, at the end of the mouth of the River Tagus as it meets the ocean, with spectacular beaches to be found on its Atlantic shorelines....
Castelo Branco | Castelo Branco is a city of 56,000 people (2011) in central Portugal. All its points of interest can be visited in one day. It is also a good base for visiting the International Tagus Natural Park,...
Coimbra | Coimbra is the traditional capital city of Central Portugal's historic Beira Litoral region. With over 140,000 inhabitants (2021), it is the largest municipality there and one of Portugal's four la...
Diving the Cape Peninsula and False Bay/SS Lusitania | Diving the Cape Peninsula and False Bay/SS Lusitania
Douro Litoral | Douro Litoral is a subregion in Northern Portugal. The Douro Litoral is one of the largest and most dynamic Portuguese economic centres, mainly known for wine and the "capital of the North". It is...
Espinho | Espinho is a seaside resort town of 32,000 people (2011) in the north of Portugal. Its main source of income is tourism. Understand. Espinho (sh-PEE-nyoo, /ʃ.ˈpi.ɲu/) became a spa town in the begin...
Faro | Faro is a city in the Algarve region of Portugal that is a popular sun destination in the summer, and a base for exploring the surrounding area. Understand. Faro (FAH-roo, /ˈfa.ɾu/) is the southern...
Fátima | Fátima is a world famous Catholic pilgrimage city and civil parish in the municipality of Ourém in Portugal's Beira Litoral region. Understand. Fátima (FAH-tee-muh, /ˈfa.ti.mɐ/) is a world-famous p...
Fisterra | Fisterra or Finisterre means "land's end" and is in Galicia near the northwest tip of Spain. The name refers both to the rugged headland and the nearby village, which had a population of 4700 in 20...
Funchal | Funchal is the capital and main city of the autonomous region of Madeira, on the island of Madeira, in its south between Santa Cruz and Câmara de Lobos. In 2021, it was home 106,000 people. Underst...
Graskop | Graskop is in the Mpumalanga Province of north-west South Africa. It was set up in the 1880s as a gold mining camp but it now serves as a tourist destination and the timber industry. “God’s Window”...
Guarda | Guarda is a city of 43,000 people (2011) in Beira Alta, a region of Central Portugal. Guarda is the highest city in continental Portugal (altitude 1,056 m), located to the northeast of Serra da Est...
Lagos (Portugal) | Lagos is a city of 31,000 people (2011) in the Algarve, in the south of Portugal. It is dominated by up to 50 metre high limestone and sandstone cliffs. The city is located at the mouth of the Bens...
Leiria | Leiria is a city of 127,000 people (2011) in Beira Litoral in central Portugal. It is home to a restored medieval castle. Understand. Leiria (lay-REE-uh, /ɫɐj.ˈɾi.ɐ/) municipality has 126,879 resid...
Lisbon | Lisbon (Portuguese: "Lisboa") is the capital of Portugal situated on seven hills at the wide mouth of the river Tagus ("Tejo") where it meets the Atlantic Ocean. With 545,000 residents in the city...
Lisbon (disambiguation) | There is more than one place called Lisbon:
Lisbon Falls | Lisbon Falls
Greater Lisbon | The Greater Lisbon (Portuguese: "Grande Lisboa") is the region surrounding Lisbon, the capital of Portugal. It consists of municipalities located on the northern bank of the wide mouth of the Tagus...
Mafra | Mafra is a city of 77,000 people (2011) in Greater Lisbon, Estremadura, Portugal. It is mostly known for the sumptuous Mafra National Palace, which is a . Other points of interest around the munici...
Marvão | Marvão is a mountain village of 3,000 people (2019) in Alentejo perched on a quartzite crag of the Serra de São Mamede. Understand. Marvão's (muhr-VUHNOOW, /maɾ.ˈvɐ̃w/) name is derived from an 8th-...
Idanha-a-Nova | Idanha-a-Nova is a municipality in the Beira Baixa, a region of Central Portugal. It includes Monsanto, an ancient fortified village perched on the side of the mountain. The tiny streets are carved...
Montpellier | Montpellier is the principal city in the Languedoc-Roussillon region in southwest France. It's been the one of the fastest growing cities in France since the 1990s. As a result, it has very modern...
Navarre | Navarre (Spanish: "Navarra", Basque: "Nafarroa") is a region in Northern Spain. Navarre is one of the historic Basque districts, with its Basque features conspicuous in the north, while virtually a...
Paraty | Paraty (also spelled Parati) is a coastal historic town in the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It was first settled by the Portuguese in 1667. Its old churches, cobbled streets and nearby forests,...
Póvoa de Varzim | Póvoa de Varzim is a city in the Douro Litoral, Norte region of Portugal. It has 40,000 inhabitants (2011). The town lies on the Portuguese Coastal Way of the Camino de Santiago. Understand. Póvoa...
Ponte de Lima | Ponte de Lima is a town on the banks of the River Lima, in Minho, in Viana do Castelo district. It is the oldest village in Portugal. This village and its iconic bridge are located in the heart of...
Portimão | Portimão is the second biggest city in the Algarve, Portugal, and famous for its fresh fish restaurants, grilled sardines being the most famous dish. It's very close to one of the most well known b...
Porto Santo | Porto Santo is the northernmost and easternmost island in Portugal's Madeira archipelago in the Atlantic Ocean. The only significant settlement on the island is the town of "Vila Baleira". The isla...
Estrada Real | The Estrada Real ("Royal Road") , in Southeast Brazil, is one of the oldest roads in the Americas. It is becoming a popular itinerary for those in search of culture, history, typical regional food...
Sagres | Sagres is the southwesternmost point of Portugal and of Europe, in Barlavento, western Algarve, a beach destination with some nice churches, lighthouses and forts. Understand. Sagres (/ˈsa.gɾɨʃ/, S...
Santiago do Cacém | Santiago do Cacém is a municipality in Baixo Alentejo in Portugal. Understand. Santiago do Cacém (suhn-tee-AH-goo doo kuh-SUHNGEE, /sɐ̃.ti.ˈa.gu du kɐ.ˈsɐ̃j/) has a total area of and a total popula...
Setúbal | Setúbal is a city in Estremadura, Portugal, on the northern bank of the Sado River estuary. The city is connected with the nearby Arrábida hills natural park, which offers an unspoiled nature and b...
Silves | Silves is a city in the Algarve. It was the capital of the nominal Kingdom of the Algarve and is of great historical importance. Understand. Silves (SEEL-v(ih)sh, /ˈsiɫ.vɨʃ/) In 2011, about 11,000...
Tomar | Tomar is a city of 41,000 people (2011) in Ribatejo, Portugal. Tomar is one of Portugal's historical jewels and, more significantly, was the last Templar town to be commissioned for construction. U...
Viana do Castelo | Viana do Castelo is one of the most beautiful Portuguese cities, in the Minho region of Northern Portugal. The Pilgrimage of Nossa Senhora da Agonia and the amazing views of the Lima River make thi...
Vila Real | Vila Real is a city of 52,000 people (2011) the Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro region in Northern Portugal. It is the home of the beautiful Palácio de Mateus.  Understand. Vila Real (VEE-luh rree-AHL,...
Vila Real de Santo António | Vila Real de Santo António is a city in the Algarve region of Portugal, on the eastern bank of the River Guadiana which across from Spain. Understand. Vila Real de Santo António (VEE-luh rree-AHL d...
Alcácer do Sal | Alcácer do Sal is a municipality in Baixo Alentejo, Portugal. It contains the seaside village of Comporta in the Sado Estuary Nature Reserve and the Comporta-Galé Community Area so that visitors ca...
Ericeira | Ericeira is an adorable seaside resort and fishing town in Greater Lisbon, Estremadura, Portugal. Full of stories and traditions, "Vila Velha" is made up of narrow streets and typical houses, uniqu...
Queluz | Queluz is a Portuguese city in Sintra municipality in Greater Lisbon, Estremadura, and home to one of the finest examples of Rococo architecture in Europe: the Queluz National Palace. It is famed a...